# CS360
The Weight Tracker app that I have developed is designed to allow users to record their daily weight records. Users enter a weight number and a date for each log. Logs can be added, deleted, or updated using the interface. The settings contain an option to enable SMS messages, change the weight between pounds and kilograms, and add a goal weight to the app. The goal weight is displayed at the top of the screen in the settings screen. I added buttons to the main log screen for the adding, updating, and deleting of logs. The logs are all displayed in sequential order, from most recent to oldest. The design is successful, as the people who explored and tested my design had no problem navigating and understanding how to use the app. When writing the code for the app, I used an iterative approach to write and test each component of the app. I made sure one component was fully functional and did not disrupt the function of other components, before working on a new component.
I manually tested the app regularly, as this was the fastest way to do it given my iterative approach. It also made sense given the very user-interactive nature of the mobile app. It is important to make sure the button clicks work properly and respond quickly. I also had one other person use the app and see how easy it was to navigate. They discovered a couple of bugs in their usage that I was able to correct as well. When designing the app, it became clear to me that a scroll view was not going to give the results that I wanted. So, I changed to a recycler view as this was easy to add given the nature of how the logs are displayed. Part of the challenge with the log display was retrieving the data and formatting it to display in the database. Originally, I was going to create an array of strings for the recycler view to iterate through when being created. I quickly realized how convoluted that would be and switched to creating a list of objects that would hold the data retried from the database. This made manipulating the data for various functions much easier. Another challenge I had was the issue of deleting logs. The process seems simple enough, but my issue was the retrieval of the log to delete from the database. Instead of performing a search based on the strings, and the potential for multiple matches, I instead added the IDs for each individual log to the recycler view’s elements. When the recycler view is generated, it takes the ID stored in the object array and sets that ID as the tag for each element. That way, when a user clicks on a log, the program can pull the ID from the tag and delete the object that way. It is these functions in the Weight Log screen and the WeightDB SQLiteOpenHelper that I am feel is the best demonstration of my knowledge and experience in this project. Those two elements are the bulk of the apps code and functionality.
